If i was to describe my self in one word, that would be Hieu. My name is Hieu
Nguyen. I was born in a small village in Viet Nam, where i spend most of
childhood in the fields. When i turned 18, i packed my luggages and came to Ho
Chi Minh city to pursue a Bachelor's Degree in Business Administration at the
University of Economics in Ho Chi Minh city. Three years later, i realized that
Business Management wasn't for me, so i quitted and packed my luggage again for
the next adventure: the US. I came to the US in 2012 for a quest for better
education. Four years have come by and i landed in IIT for my education in
Electrical Engineering, a field that i never dreamed of. IIT gave me lot of
experience, two of which are RMC and Co-op: The RMC team is a very cool group of
people who come from many different disciplines. We gather together weekly to
build a prototype for a Martian Rover robot, which was also a participant of
the 2017 NASA Robotic Mining Competition. As a proud member of the 2017 RMC
team, i developed the robot's control system for which the robot can be remotely
controlled if it was to be sent to Mars. If you think building a robot for NASA
competition is cool. Shoot me email and i will see how i can help you join the
team. The second thing that i got from IIT is an opportunity to gain hands-on
experience of what i have study. I dedicated the entire semester to do control
engineer co-op at the Ford Motor Company. No, i'm not building cars. I'm
"building" processes that build cars. Contradict to what it sounds, an intern's
job is not that big. I spend most of my days thinking about new projects that i
will be working on. It's only excited when there was an incident in the plant
where some machine broke because then all the engineer will use there best
skills to troubleshoot the problem. My ambition in this class is to be able to
control the Web. Websites have always been something i would like to create. I
used to build some web pages using available tools such as Word Press. Although
i was able to create a website that can be accessed via a the Internet, I was
not able to make any modifications to my site because i just don't know how to
do it. So i expect to be a html wizard at the time this class is over. There
are so many things i could do on the web: maintain a show site for my family's
business, communication with the robots via a web interface. Or just simply post
personal blogs. My long term goal is to be come a fine engineer, who build cool
product and technology for the future. Some of area of interest include:
Robotics, Automation, and electronic boards and component manufacturing. My very
long long term goal is to achieve financial freedom. Being a good engineer might
not make me a very rich person. So i thought i would utilize the knowledge i
learn in three years of Business Management and the knowledge that i will learn
along away to invest in financial activity. I might be a technical person who
always fascinates about technology, but i also love learning new cultures and
new languages. Chinese is my next to-learn language because most of my family
member could speak some shades of Chinese, but i can't. I love photography and
traveling.
